Data 180 **Study guide for Exam 2:**
This list is created to help you study for exam 2. 
*Disclaimer:* The topics listed here may not be fully comprehensive. You should refer to
the notes posted on GitHub, as they form the main source material.

Topic 4: dplyr
Make sure to review the dplyr homework and understand the operations in it well.
Be able to use the
Four main functions of dplyr (select, filter, mutate, arrange) to manipulate and access data.
Pipe operator with dplyr functions.
Ifelse function in creating a categorical variable from numerical.
Groupby and summarize to return aggregate summaries of data.

Topic 5: unsupervised learning: hierarchical clustering
What is unsupervised learning? Compare with supervised learning.
Identify if a data science task requires unsupervised or supervised learning.
Define what a distance is. Calculate distance between two objects using Euclidean,
Manhattan, and Minkowski distance.
What is a data matrix? What is a distance matrix? Identify the dimensions of a given
data matrix and distance matrix given a dataset.
Find distance between two groups of objects using nearest neighbor, furthest neighbor,
and average neighbor distance.
What is hierarchical clustering? Why is it called "bottom up"?
What is a dendrogram?
Find a partition set necessary to create a dendrogram given data and/or distance matrix.
Create (by hand) a dendrogram given data and/or distance matrix using partitions.
Create (by R, using hclust) a dendrogram given data and/or distance matrix using partition set.
Show visually how to identify clusters on a dendrogram. (e.g., horizontally cutting the dendrogram)
Visually compare if a clustering solution from a dendrogram matches well with a scatterplot of the raw data.
Create a scatterplot of raw data with separate colors or symbols showing cluster belonging for each observation.

Topic 6: unsupervised learning: k-means
What is a centroid? Find the centroid of a group of objects by hand.
What is k-means clustering? Why is it called "k-means"?
Describe briefly how the algorithm works step by step, including its stochastic (random) nature.
Explain what WGSS is. How does the k-means algorithm use WGSS to find a clustering solution? (No need for by-hand calculations)

Topic 7: unsupervised learning part 2: similarity measures
What is a similarity measure? How is it different (or similar) to a distance measure.
Why is similarity more useful in certain datasets compared to dissimilarity (distance)? Are all kinds of data suitable to use distance measures?
Find by hand the similarity between two objects given binary, categorical (with more than 2 possible categories), and numerical characteristics using matching coefficient.
Why for certain data 0-0 matches can't imply similarity between objects? Given an example of data in a given dataset in which a 0-0 match contains no useful information for determining similarity.
What is Jaccard's coefficient? Why was it proposed? Find by hand the similarity between two objects given binary, categorical (with more than 2 possible categories), and numerical characteristics using Jaccard's coefficient.
What is the Generalized Similarity Measure (aka the Gower's measure)? Why and how is it used?
Find by hand the similarity between two objects using Gower's measure where certain 0-0 matches (which you as the data scientist must determine) don't contain useful information.
Use daisy function in R to create a dissimilarity matrix.
Know how to convert a dissimilarity observation (or a dissimilarity matrix) into a similarity observation (or a similarity matrix).

