Data 180 **Study guide for Exam 1:**
This list is created to help you study for exam 1. 
*Disclaimer:* The topics listed here may not be fully comprehensive. You should refer to
the notes posted on GitHub, as they form the main source material.

Topic 1: Data Science
What is Data Science?
What do data scientists do with data on a regular basis? 
Compare supervised/unsupervised learning.
What is Git and GitHub? Why do data scientists use it?
Where do data come from?
Compare parameter/statistic.
Be able to find unit of observation given a data set, i.e. identify what each row shows observations from.
Identify if a variable is categorical (nominal/ordinal) or numeric (discrete/cont)
What is a data matrix? What is a data frame?
What are the main measures of center? Explain how each is calculated and why some are more appropriate than others in certain settings.
What is skewness? Identify the direction of skewness given a distribution.

Topic 2: R
Be able to,
Create a scalar, vector, list, dataframe object.
Declare a factor variable with custom levels.
Access column(s) of a dataframe.
Access a row or certain rows of an object using position and/or column name.
Make operations on a vector or matrix, e.g. multiply/divide by a scalar, replace/add elements.
Create a custom function that can accomplish a given task/operation.
Construct if/else statements.
Use a for loop to achieve a task/operation.
Display the first n rows of a data frame object.
Return the shape, i.e., the number of rows, columns of a data frame.
Return unique values/levels of a variable.
Return basic statistics (mean, median..) in a data frame.

Topic 3: Visualization
What is bar graph, pie chart, histogram, scatterplot? Identify for what variable type(s) each can be used.
Create the graphs above using base R.
Create the graphs above using ggplot2.
Find the rule of thumb for the number of bars for a histogram. Implement it in R.
Use conditional coloring in base R and ggplot2.
Create multiple graphs side by side using conditional in ggplot2.
Customize axis labels, range, title, graph color, label size in base R and ggplot2.
What is geospatial data? What is a shape file?
What is a polygon? What is a point on a map?
How does information on drawing a map with borders recorded in a geospatial dataframe?
What is a coordinate reference system?
What are latitude and longitude? Where do they appear on a map?
Make a map using ggplot2. Customize its color using a single color or information from a column.
Make an interactive map using mapview. Be able to customize its color palette and the information displayed with mouse hovering.
Make two side by side interactive maps of different locations using mapview.